RELEASE News for different forums                        -*- outline -*-

* Overview
 ** [Soccer Lists]
 ** [General (SF Project News etc)]

* Content

** [Soccer Lists]

we have just released rcssserver3D-0.3. 

In this release, a few bugs have been fixed and the soccer rules have
been polished for the competition. In the soccer simulation, the ball
is dropped when no player goes to the ball; it is also possible to
drop the ball manually now. The match length has been extended to 2* 5
minutes. The goals got physical goalposts and a crossbar.

We added a 2D view and some more keys to the 'lite' monitor (in the
monitor window, press '?' for an overview). Logfiles can be watched in
single step mode. When the match is over, simulator and monitor are
automatically terminated now.

For details have a look into the ChangeLog.

You can get the package on the Soccer Simulator page on SourceForge [1].

cheers
Oliver Obst

[1] http://sourceforge.net/projects/sserver/


** [General (SF Project News etc)]

we have just released rcssserver3D-0.3. 

rcssserver3D is a multi-agent simulation system for physical agents in
three-dimensional environments. It features a flexible application
framework and a scene description language for setting up different
kinds of simulations. The soccer simulation built on top of this will
be used for the 3D Simulation League competition on RoboCup 2004 
(see http://www.robocup2004.pt/).

In this release, a few bugs have been fixed and the soccer rules have
been polished for the competition. In the soccer simulation, the ball
is dropped when no player goes to the ball; it is also possible to
drop the ball manually now. The match length has been extended to 2* 5
minutes. The goals got physical goalposts and a crossbar.

We added a 2D view and some more keys to the 'lite' monitor (in the
monitor window, press '?' for an overview). Logfiles can be watched in
single step mode. When the match is over, simulator and monitor are
automatically terminated now.

For details have a look into the ChangeLog coming with the package.

You can get the package on the Soccer Simulator page on SourceForge
at http://sourceforge.net/projects/sserver/

cheers
Oliver Obst

